Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder condition characterized by a spectrum of challenges related to social interaction, communication, and repetitive behaviors. Individuals with ASD may exhibit a wide range of abilities, strengths, challenges i.e. impact the person’s overall perceiving and socializing ability. The term “spectrum” in ASD refers to the wide range of symptoms and severeness. ASD is often diagnosed in early childhood, but its presentation varies significantly among individuals, making accurate and timely diagnosis a complex task. The project's primary focus lies in the development of an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) Prediction Model, with a particular focus on using eye tracking data in conjunction with behavioral data from autistic individuals. The integration of cutting-edge data analysis methods into the field of neurodevelopmental diseases is the main focus. The project's distinctive contribution is derived from its focused analysis of eye tracking data, which attempts to identify trends and markers that may be important ASD diagnostic markers. This particular attention to eye tracking data is an innovative attempt to apply state-of-the-art technology to improve the overall accuracy and performance of ASD prediction mechanism and thus can help in early diagnosis of symptoms of ASD in the individuals.

Eye-Tracking Dataset link: https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Eye-Tracking_Dataset_to_Support_the_Research_on_Autism_Spectrum_Disorder/20113592

Behavioural Screening Dataset link: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/426/autism+screening+adult
